---
layout: page
title: Intern Blogs
cover-img: assets/img/Cover_study.jpg
thumbnail-img: ""
share-img: ""
comments: true
---

Hi! I'm Sahil. Through this blog, I'll try to share my experience
throughout the internship season as well as a Quantitative Trader Intern
at AlphaGrep. At the time of writing this blog, I'm almost at the end of
my internship, with the last few days remaining. It is a 2 months
offline internship, based in Gurgaon.

**Months before the internship season started:**

Till my 2nd year, I had no clue of what a quant profile is and how do I
get into it. I got to know about it only when one of my friends
mentioned about it in a discussion about the internships. I have always
had interest in the finance side, and felt that this field is one which
I can maybe try to experience as it requires a mixture of your technical
as well as critical thinking skills. I started my internship preparation
after the end of my 2nd year. I wasn't sure of what the preparation for
different profile looks like andIt was a bit challenging to think about
appropriate resources and start practising coding regularly, as I had
not done much of coding, apart from those required in few of the
courses. But, I had heard from many seniors that coding and DSA is a
very basic requirement for almost all the profiles in the internship. So
to begin with, I started solving questions from cses.fi to get a sense
of the basic problems and their different categories. After having
solved some simple ones, I moved to leetcode to start practising DSA
questions. I used to solve 2-3 problems everyday at max, but tried to be
consistent enough. In the last one month, I also looked upon the
internet and started solving puzzle and probability questions from sites
such as brainstellar.

**The Internship Season:**

It was almost the mid of July when the final resume was needed to be
submitted to and verified by the PT cell. Just after the resume
verification deadline, IAFs for different companies started opening and
I tried applying for all of them, as I wasn't very sure of getting a
profile of my choice and wanted to keep my doors open for any
opportunity that I may get. In the back of my mind, it was also that the
more companies I apply for, the more tests I get to give, adding more
value to my internship preparation. The initial two weeks were quite
hectic with tests and classes back to back, that too on all days of the
week. It was quite overwhelming initially, but I somehow managed to get
through it. I got shortlisted for the interview with few firms like
Optiver, Samsung Korea and Morgan Stanley, but I wasn't able to get into
their final selection list. Eventually, I got interviewed and selected
by AlphaGrep, exactly the profile that I wished to go into!

**The test and the interview:**

The test for AlphaGrep consisted of 5 coding questions, which was done
to be using only C++ and no other programming language was allowed. Due
to this fact, some of my friends who had prepared using other languages,
faced difficulties and missed qualifying for the next round. The
interview consisted of two rounds, both of them being the technical
round. In the first round, I was asked to explain some of the projects
that I had mentioned on my resume. It also consisted of some basic DSA
questions and few other general algorithm-based questions. The second
round was focused more on problem-solving, and consisted mainly of
puzzles and probability-based questions, except a single coding problem.
The interviewers were very nice and frank, and made me comfortable in
case I wasn't able to answer properly.

**My work profile:**

I'm working as a Quantitative Trader Intern in a mid-frequency trading
(MFT) team. Being in a MFT, not much of my coding skills is put into use
as my work mainly revolves around making alphas or in simple words,
making trading strategies or finding some factors to select appropriate
stocks for trading in the equities market.

Apart from this, I also received other tasks related to coding some
models and reading about few topics for my own understanding. These
things helped me get a broader overview of how various instruments are
traded across the exchanges all over the world and how the strategies
and models need to be updated timely to match the pace with this
fast-evolving market.

I have had a prior knowledge of financial markets, which definitely
helped me get comfortable with this field easily. But even if one
doesn't has this knowledge apriori, one can learn it along the way while
doing the internship.

**Conclusion:**

It is a highly competitive and challenging field. As it involves
thinking about various market scenarios and trying several different
strategies, one may not get results immediately and may have to try
plenty of things before striking a successful strategy, which might be
demotivating sometimes. Overall, I would say this field is quite
intriguing and definitely one must give a shot to it. In the end, I
would like to thank you for being with me till the end of this
(lengthy!) blog and wish you all the best for your future endeavors!
