---
layout: page
title: Intern Blogs
cover-img: assets/img/Cover_study.jpg
thumbnail-img: ""
share-img: ""
comments: true
---

**Basic Information:**

Hi! I am Preethi, and I'm writing this during the summer following my
third year. I am from the Department of ELectrical Engineering. I am
currently (summer, '23) interning at Goldman Sachs (Bengaluru). It is an
offline internship for a duration of 8 weeks. (It's fun!)

**Getting into the internship:**

I didn't have a preference for any profile. I was unaware of my
interests and strengths, and I was terrified of ending up as the only
one in my close knit friend group without an intern. I thought of doing
a core intern. However, I believed (still do) a core intern requires
some amount of patience, and confidence. You must sit through the first
few weeks of the intern season, see your batchmates and friends getting
interns while the tension builds up (hopefully not), and finally after
weeks, you might get an intern in the domain you like. (Disclaimer: this
was my train of thought. Do talk to core-enthu people, before accepting
this point of view). I didn't want to go through this stress, and I
didn't have a strong personal preference toward core anyway. So, I
started preparing for the software profile; I ended up getting a quant
role in a finance firm. Fortunately, I love the work I'm doing and I
feel it suits me better than any software role would have.However, such
coincidences are rare, and I would suggest identifying your strengths
and preferences and preparing for a relevant profile.

Anyway, I spent most of my 2nd year summer practicing DSA. I started
writing "good code" - using functions appropriately, using proper
variable names, taking care of time and space complexities etc. (Note:
in coding tests and interviews, these are indeed important). I started
practicing on leetcode, I even took up a Summer of Science project in
DSA to keep me motivated. I had a few ML projects on my resume, and I
was willing to take up an ML/AI role too, so I brushed up on those
skills too.

Fast forward to the start of the intern season. The 5th semester started
and so did a series of tests, and pre-intern talks and what not. The
first week intern tests consisted of questions based on DSA or logical
reasoning ability, or in some rare cases, questions on integrity. I
applied for all job profiles other than finance! I didn't think I had
the ability to take risks that's required in finance. Guess what, I'm
now working in the Risk division of Goldman Sachs. The tests, along with
the semester's curriculum were a bit tedious, but manageable.

Then came the first weekend of the intern season. I was shortlisted for
interviews in Google, Uber and Goldman Sachs, all for the software role.
I spoke to seniors in Google and GS for tips. The first interview was
for Google. I had 2 rounds, and the interview seemed to go well. I
seemed confident in the interviews, and I thought the interviewers
seemed pleased too. Similarly, for Uber. I had 4 rounds of interviews.
In this case, I was sure the interviewers were happy. On the other hand,
GS interviews seemed just okay. I had 4 rounds, in which I aced one, I
totally messed one up, and the other 2 were okayish. The results came in
late Sunday night, and my name was not to be seen in any company's
selections.

I was upset, I felt like I did my best, but failed. It was bad, because
in my mind the interviews had gone well. I couldn't help but feel angry
about the interviewers, and the HR, and the PT cell, and everyone around
me and myself. Eventually, me and my friends talked to each other,
convinced ourselves that this was not the end of the world. Afterall,
this was what I had expected. I dropped a course (thinking that would
help me focus a bit more on intern prep, and the remaining courses), and
ramped up my preparations (solved more DSA questions, started a bit of
core prep - reviewed course notes for analog, digital and signal
processing). Finally, 3 days after the day 1 interviews, the extended
selections for the companies came in, and I was overjoyed to see my name
in there. It was a huge relief.

**During the internship:**

My internship started on 15th May, in Bengaluru. The city is amazing,
except for the transport, which is BAD. Luckily, I got a PG very close
to my office, and I don't have to spend hours in the traffic everyday.

My job, as I mentioned earlier, is in Risk, specifically - model risk
management. I review historical data, and use (pre-existing) financial
price prediction models to make sure the firm can survive stress
periods. 3 weeks into the intern, we had a networking dinner at Radisson
Blu with the MDs in the firm. It was enlightening. I now work in a team
of 9 interns and 24 full time employees. The team is amazing! They
include us in all team building activities - we have cricket matches on
weekends, we had a promotions party recently, and an intern party, and
each was fun in its own way. The team is open to any questions, related
or otherwise to my project. I have started informally discussing puzzles
with a vice president in the team, and exchanging books with another
employee. I look forward to these informal interactions with my team
everyday. The working hours are flexible. I generally login at 10am, and
logout at 8pm. The best part is: my recruiters (people who interviewed
me) are members of my team, and they were able to provide feedback on my
interviews too. Coming to feedback, I get feedback from my manager on a
daily (if not hourly) basis. Basically, I can approach him anytime
during his work hours and he has always responded promptly. In
conclusion, I would definitely recommend the company to anyone looking
for a job in quant.

Finally, my advice is: talk to people - those who have been in your
shoes before, those with whom you have to work, those who have a say in
reviewing your work. These connections help in unexpected ways. Also,
feel free to contact me for anything. I love gyaan baantna! All the
best!
